Enthusiasm for understanding how changes in the human microbiome affect health
has led to an influx of researchers who have little experience in documenting
and performing bioinfomatic analyses. Compounding this problem is the fact that
over the past 10 years microbiome datasests have grown from hundreds to millions
of sequences. Of course, with the increased size of the datasets the complexity
of the analyses has also grown. Researchers that once used Microsoft Excel to
analyze sequence data now struggle to use command line tools and to document
their workflows. Traditional training programs have not been able to meet the
needs of these researchers and so it is essential that instructional modules be
developed to train these researchers on the best practices for documenting and
disseminating their analyses so that they can be reproduced by others. The
objective of this proposal is to develop training modules that members of the
microbiome research community can use to improve the reproducibility and overall
quality of their research. Aside from the general importance of insuring that
all research is reproducible, the rationale for why this is important now is due
to the significant growth of the community. The specific aim of the proposed
effort will develop a set of auto-tutorial modules to teach microbiome
researchers habits for engaging in reproducible research. This aim will be
achieved through an iterative process of development, evaluation, and refinement
using a wide network of microbiome researchers. The expected outcomes of the
proposed modules are the improvement of the reproducibility of research within
the microbiome research community, increased accessibility to raw original data,
and a greater use of literate programming tools for constructing manuscripts and
oral presentations. Furthermore, if it is possible to improve the reproduciblity
of the original research, then it will be more likely that other researchers
will use those data, results, and methods to perform additional analyses
resulting in a greater  understanding of the microbiome. Such a process is rare
within the microbiome literature given the vast size of many of these datasets.
The long-term goal of this project is to establish a broader community-supported
resource devoted to disseminating best practices in performing reproducible
microbiome research. Given the significant role of the microbiome in human
health and the significant growth in our understanding of how it shapes health
and disease, improving the reliability of the results form these studies will
have a meaningful positive impact. This project will yield a significant
vertical step in the field because it will put tools into the hands of
researchers performing microbiome-focused studies empowering them to perform
sophisticated and reproducible analyses. The approach taken in the proposed
research is innovative because it represents the first concentrated effort to
develop formal, public, and open training modules directed at the microbiome
research community. Finally, we anticipate that the materials we develop for the
microbiome research community will be easily disseminated across other
bioinformatics research disciplines.  
