# Research Strategy
## Significance
Does the proposed program address a key audience and an important aspect or
important need in research education? Is there convincing evidence in the
application that the proposed program will significantly advance the stated goal
of the program?

Graduate students were often **significantly dependent on the mentor or the
mentor's lab for the training received, and postdoctoral fellows were primarily
dependent on the mentor or mentor's lab at all institutions**.  Rather than
being learned in prescribed curricula, **training in good laboratory practices
that influence data reproducibility appears to be largely passed down from
generation to generation of working scientists**, with substantial variation
from laboratory to laboratory.  Importantly, most respondents thought an NIGMS
program aimed at producing exportable training modules would be beneficial.  It
is also hoped that NIH involvement in promoting training in this area will raise
the visibility of this issue and its importance within our grantee community.


## Innovation
Taking into consideration the nature of the proposed research education program,
does the applicant make a strong case for this program effectively reaching an
audience in need of the program’s offerings? Where appropriate, is the proposed
program developing or utilizing innovative approaches and latest best practices
to improve the knowledge and/or skills of the intended audience?


## Proposed Research Education Program.
While the proposed research education program may complement ongoing research
training and education occurring at the applicant institution, the proposed
educational experiences must be distinct from those research training and
research education programs currently receiving federal support. When research
training programs are on-going in the same department, the applicant
organization should clearly distinguish between the activities in the proposed
research education program and the research training supported by the training
program. The description should include the educational and/or career level(s)
of the planned participants. The research education proposed must be targeted to
graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, and beginning investigators

It is expected that the proposed training modules will identify deficiencies and
teach best laboratory practices in one or more of the following four general
areas:

* Analysis and reporting: what are the necessary procedural details that should
be included; what are the research resources that must be identified, including
their type and source

* Culture of science: how to ensure adequate oversight when the volume and speed
of new science may mean mentors are unfamiliar with technology used by their
trainees.

State the goals for education and justify the area of training selected for
module development in terms of its relevance and potential impact on improving
data reproducibility. Describe the subject material to be covered.  Describe the
format for the training module proposed and justify it in terms of the education
goals.  The length of the proposed training module should be explained in terms
of scope and depth of coverage of the subject matter and how the research
education will be utilized by trainees, for example, a module on how to avoid
confirmation bias to be taken by all beginning laboratory workers at the
graduate student, postdoctoral fellow and beginning investigator level, or a
module on appropriate design of animal studies to be taken immediately prior to
beginning such work. Describe the plans for piloting the training module.

Describe plans for making the proposed training module section 508 compliant of
the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. '794 d), as amended by the Workforce
Investment Act of 1998 (P.L. 105 – 220; see http://www.section508.gov/ for
additional information).

Provide a timeline for module development, piloting and refinement,
dissemination, evaluation, and maintenance.  This timeline must propose making
the training publicly available within two years of the award date

The over-arching goal of this NIH R25 program is to support educational
activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet
the nation’s biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs and foster a
better understanding of biomedical, behavioral and clinical research and its
implications. To accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this FOA will support
creative educational activities with a primary focus on **exportable training
modules designed to enhance data reproducibility, targeted to graduate students,
postdoctoral fellows, and beginning investigators.**

## Program Director/Principal Investigator
Describe arrangements for administration of the program.  Provide evidence that
the Program Director/Principal Investigator is actively engaged in research
and/or teaching in an area related to the mission of NIH, and can organize,
administer, monitor, and evaluate the research education program. For programs
proposing multiple PDs/PIs, describe the complementary and integrated expertise
of the PDs/PIs; their leadership approach, and governance appropriate for the
planned project.

Is the PD/PI capable of providing both administrative and scientific leadership
to the development and implementation of the proposed program? Is there evidence
that an appropriate level of effort will be devoted by the program leadership to
ensure the program's intended goal is accomplished? If applicable, is there
evidence that the participating faculty have experience in mentoring students
and teaching science? If applicable, are the faculty good role models for the
participants by nature of their scientific accomplishments? If the project is
collaborative or multi-PD/PI, do the investigators have complementary and
integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and
organizational structure appropriate for the project?


## Program Faculty
Researchers from diverse backgrounds, including racial and ethnic minorities,
persons with disabilities, and women are encouraged to participate as program
faculty. Faculty should have research expertise and experience relevant to the
proposed program and demonstrate a history of, or the potential for, their
intended roles.


## Program Participants
Applications must describe the intended participants, and the eligibility
criteria and/or specific educational background characteristics that are
essential for participation in the proposed research education program. Identify
the career levels  for which the proposed program is planned. The training
proposed must be targeted to graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, and/or
beginning investigators

"The target audiences for these modules are graduate students, postdoctoral
fellows, and beginning investigators."  

## Institutional Environment and Commitment
Describe the institutional environment, reiterating the availability of
facilities and educational resources (described separately under “Facilities &
Other Resources”), that can contribute to the planned Research Education
Program. Evidence of institutional commitment to the research educational
program is required. A letter of institutional commitment must be attached as
part of Letters of Support (see below). Appropriate institutional commitment
should include the provision of adequate staff, facilities, and educational
resources that can contribute to the planned research education program.


## Evaluation Plan
Applications must include a plan for evaluating the activities supported by the
award in terms of their frequency of use and their usefulness. The application
must specify baseline metrics (e.g., numbers, educational levels, and
demographic characteristics of participants), as well as measures to gauge the
short or long-term success of the research education award in achieving its
objectives. Wherever appropriate, applicants are encouraged to obtain feedback
from participants to help identify weaknesses and to provide suggestions for
improvements.


## Dissemination Plan
A specific plan must be provided to disseminate nationally at no additional cost
the finished training modules.
