# Specific Aims

It has been well established that the general ability to reproduce biomedical
research is limited. There is a strong likelihood that it is particularly
problematic within the new area of microbiome research because there are a
growing number of scientists coming into the field that were trained as
molecular biologists who do not have adequate training in performing informatics
research. Furthermore, these self-trained bioinformaticists are frequently
isolated from other individuals performing similar analyses and do not have
access to the growing number of resources to improve the documentation and
reproducibility of their analyses. Although they have been well inculcated to
perform detailed molecular biology experiments, many of those cultural norms are
not directly translatable to bioinformatics. Many of these norms relate to the
ability to perform reproducible science. The first significant problem is that
because the field is rapidly growing and still quite new, no standard methods
have settled upon. Therefore it is difficult for new microbiome researchers to
know the correct way of analyzing their data and to know the appropriate level
of detail that should be included in their manuscripts. A second problem is that
bioinformatics research does not lend itself well to using the traditional
laboratory notebook, which is a critical component of experimental
reproducibility for a bench scientist. For the microbiome researcher, the
datasets are large, involve many steps at a computer, and are iterative.
Therefore it is cumbersome and perhaps even dangerous for these scientists to
transcribe their commands and results from the computer to a paper-based
notebook and back into the computer. A third challenge for the traditional
molecular biologist is that although it is common to share reagents such as mice
or bacterial strains, the concept of sharing data and analysis pipelines is
novel. Yet because their new datasets are large and can frequently be
interrogated numerous ways beyond the original design of the experiment, it is
important that the data and analytical methods be made publicly available so
that others can extend the study beyond the initial analysis. There is a clear
need to develop a set of best practices within the microbiome research community
for engaging in reproducible research.

The ***long-term goal*** of our research group is to understand the relationship
between the dynamics of the microbiome and human health. Towards that goal we
have a considerable track record in developing and disseminating the most widely
used software package being used in the area of microbiome research, mothur.
This has given us considerable insights into how microbiome researchers engage
in their research as we have interacted with them over the past decade. Based on
these observations, the ***objective*** of this proposal is to develop training
modules that members of the microbiome research community can use to improve the
reproducibility and overall quality of their research. Given our position within
the microbiome research community, we are uniquely poised to complete this
objective and have unique insights into the best methods for interacting with
this community. Aside for the general importance of insuring that all research
is reproducible, our ***rationale*** for why this is important now, is due to
the significant growth of the community and the observation that it is slowly
coalescing around a set of best practices that need to be disseminated and
implemented. To achieve our objective, we propose the following specific aim:

**Develop a set of auto-tutorial modules to teach microbiome researchers habits
for engaging in reproducible research.** The goal of these modules is to create
a framework within a research group for documenting research progress,
collaborating between researchers and supervisors, and ensuring the
reproducibility of their research as it is disseminated inpublications and oral
presentations. These modules will be developed, evaluated, and refined by
engaging microbiome researchers across a wide network that we have established
through previous engagement with the research community. These modules will be
the basis for establishing a community-supported resource devoted to
disseminating best practices in performing microbiome research. The area of
microbiome research is a relatively young field that has been largely driven by
advances in technology. The past decade has witnessed significant changes in the
field and it is equally likely that similar changes will occur over the next
decade. Since traditional curricula have not been able to keep up with these
advances, there is an urgent need to develop and disseminate such modules.
Therefore, we will use this project as a starting point to establish a resource
that is supported by the research community to develop and disseminate best
practices as they relate to performing microbiome research.

The ***expected outcomes*** of the proposed modules are the improvement of the
reproducibility of research within the microbiome research community including
greater accessibility to original data, sequence analysis pipelines, and a
greater use of literate programming tools for constructing manuscript and oral
presentations. Given the significant role of the microbiome in human health and
the significant growth in our understanding of how it shapes health and disease,
improving the reliability of the results form these studies will have a
meaningful ***positive impact***. Finally, we anticipate that the materials we
develop for the microbiome research community will be easily disseminated across
the other bioinformatics research disciplines.
